Simple Analytics for OctoberCMS
===============================

Simple analyse the traffic of your website without relying on an external service. The simple 
version of this plugin (look at 'Advanced Analytics for OctoberCMS' for more information) does not 
use JavaScript and can be used "Consent-Free" according to the GDPR (See 'Legal Information' below).

**Attention:** Synder.Analytics requires PHP 7.4+!


Legal Information
-----------------

The Simple Version of this plugin is designed to be used consent-free, since it does NOT use 
cookies or store any personal or similar related data in a way that can be traced back to the user. 
The user tracking is based on a session-stored SHA-1 hashed value, consisting of the IP-Address, the 
session id as well as some random generated bytes. Of course, this reduces the evaluability of the 
individual view trace - especially across browsers and devices - but as the name suggests, this is 
just a simple analytics system and not Google Analytics or Matomo. 

**Attention:** This plugin is designed to comply with the GDPR (European General Data Protection 
Regulation), however, from a legal point of view **we cannot give any guarantees**. The use of this 
plugin is therefore at your own risk, contact us at october@synder.dev if you need some information 
of how this plugin works / collects data.


Features
--------

Simple Analytics does not include any JavaScript on your website, all information are collected on 
the server-site. While this should actually provide enough data, it is of course not always as 
precise as with JavaScript-based solutions. 

-   Simple URL and Visit / View counters
    -   Also usable on your template (see Documentation for more information)
-   Simple but limited Referrer collection
-   Simple but limited Browser and OS detection (JavaScript-less)
-   Simple but limited Bot-Detection (Humanity testing)
-   A bunch of neat statistics within 4 dashboard widgets


### Coming Soon

The following features will be added soon:

-   An own admin page with extended access to the data collections
-   Simple interface for Response code tracking, ex. to find 400 error pages 
-   Simple but limited trace/route -tracking


### Bot-Detection

The Bot-Detection is based on a value counting from 0.1 (should be human) to 5.0 (should be bot) 
and is based on the following values. If the value 0.0 is displayed, this means that no usable data 
has been received.

The evaluated data (datas marked with * must be configured before they can be used)

-   User Agent (The good bots reveal themselves, _some humans disguise it_)
-   Browser / OS (Highly outdated browsers or OS information are mostly used by bots, _or doctors_)
-	Referrer
-   \* robots.txt calls (Some bots intentionally call links inside the robots.txt file, _some humans do as well_)
-   \* invisible link (Many bots are not interested in whether you can see a link or not, _Humans do_)

The Advanced Analytics plugin (below) contains additional, Cookie and JavaScript-based, solutions.


Advanced Analytics for OctoberCMS
---------------------------------

We're currently working on an extended version of this plugin, which adds the following features:

1.  Event Monitoring - Define and Monitor custom events on your website
2.  Cookie Tracking - A GDPR-compliant but **NOT** Consent-free User Tracking
3.  Consent-Support - Own Consent Banner _or_ support of an consent banner plugin
4.  Extended Collections for referrers, browser & os datas and trace details
5.  JavaScript-supported Humanity-Testing - Extended Bot-evaluation & detection

More may be added during the development. The Advanced Analytics plugin will be available as a paid 
addition for this plugin and won't replace the free version.


Requirements
------------

-   PHP 7.4+
-   [matomo/device-detector](https://github.com/matomo-org/device-detector) 4.3+


Copyright & License
-------------------

Synder.Analytics is published under the MIT license.<br />
Copyright © 2021 Synder (info@synder.dev)
